- [Instructor] We're going to take a look at the big picture
to see how GitOps is used to manage changes,
deployments and operations of a system.
So let's start at the top and break it down from there.
We have Git and we have our System.
Inside a Git, we store the desired state of our system.
So let's pause there because state is an important term
and we should define it.
State is defined as the condition of something
at a specific time.
So right now, if you're happy and you're energetic,
that's your current state, but with the system,
state is more like how many nodes are in the cluster?
What docker image am I running,
or how many containers is it running it?
Okay, so that state in GitOps,
we described system state using code,
and it's always stored in Git through commits.
The code in Git is the single source of truth
for the condition we want our system to be in.
So here you can see,
I committed an initial configuration file
to my Git repository named system-state.yaml.
That file says the system should run one purple star.
I'm just using shapes to keep it simple
and to give you a visual.
So the desired state says we need a purple star,
but the current state of the system,
its runtime state, doesn't match.
We have some drift between Git and the System
because we haven't deployed our changes.
in GitOps, deployments are performed by an operator
that runs inside the system.
This operator will pull the code describing
the desired system state from Git
and then apply changes to the systems runtime
to match the desired state.
That's exactly what we want, the desired state described
in Git matches the runtime state of the system.
But let's say something happens in our system runtime
drifts again.
Instead of the purple star, we now have a red circle.
in GitOps, we continually observe the system
using the operator.
So the operator notices the difference
between the runtime state and the desired state,
then it automatically corrects the drift between them.
This monitoring and correction process
that is continually running by the operator
is known as the Control Loop or Reconciliation Loop.
Those are the general mechanics of how GitOps works.
We store our systems desired state in Git,
when that state changes we automate deployment
of those changes so that our systems runtime state
changes to match the desired state.
If the runtime state ever deviates from the desired state,
the control loop will align the runtime state
back to the desired state.
There's more to explore,
but you can start to see the big picture forming for GitOps.
In the next lesson, we'll talk about why it's used
and the benefits it delivers.